have you seen the bankruptcy surging and
the amount of people living paycheck to
paycheck skyrocketing well I'm going to
tell you why 2024 is going to get messy
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you if you can believe
it or not the top dog at the Bank of
Canada the Central Bank of Canada even
he is warning about what's going on in
2024 so I'm going to get into that today
I'm going to show you how many people
are living paycheck to paycheck I'm
going to show you how it gets even worse
than that and of course what people are
doing about it to cope let's get into it
right away first thing California home
sales crash the lowest level in 15 years
we know this city by city by City many
places the sales are down nobody wants
to move nobody wants to buy nobody wants
to do anything they're just kind of
sitting on their hands what does that do
well the Realtors the real estate agents
are not doing so well the mortgage
broker is not doing so well anybody in
the construction field for these
circumstances may be out of work or may
have less work right now so it seems
like it's having a Snowball Effect now
what are they waiting for let's be
honest they're waiting for with those
rate Cuts well let's look at this first
part of 2024 quote is not going to feel
good that Tiff mckam is the head of the
Central Bank of Canada and that's what
he had to say because we're still not in
that point at which rates will be cut
okay they're making a very clear at
least up to this point we're at the end
of the year moving into the first
quarter at earliest March is the First
Rate cut but still that would still make
rates quite High mortgage rates could
come down in between now and then but
they're still high from what people can
afford the debt is simply too much
people cannot bear this burden and they
are going to be in big trouble that's
what's happening here too much debt
the interest on the debt is too high and
even at a reasonable pace of cuts it's
going to break some people's backs so
let's look at that how are people
dealing with it already well how the
housing market slowdown is Rippling
through the economy in five charts
you'll see following the FED increases
spending and job growth in housing tied
sectors are struggling so that's really
the claim that I'm trying to make here
but understand something if there is a
recession well many people would say
that okay there's going to be this huge
deflation there's going to be this big
thing that's happening my whole thesis
my whole you know the way that I have
outlined everything actually
accelerates if there's a recession so I
I'll get into that okay retail sales at
furniture and home improvement stores
change from year earlier you could see
how that is declined very clearly
because people aren't moving right when
they're moving when they're willing to
upgrade grade when things are cheap when
the money is cheap they're buying that
stuff and remember this was the stuff
people could not get for a year two
years I know somebody that was waiting
over one year to get their appliances
they renovated their place they could
not get the appliances they were that
backlogged I know people that were
trying to get couches they go to get the
couch all right I want to do a little
bit of you know fixing up around the
house and we need a new couch oh can't
get
it I mean this this is real that was
happening and now suddenly oh we have
too much so what happens well all the
way down the line you can see that this
is having an impact on businesses and it
shows us if they're not willing to buy
there's one reason or another where's
the money going well right now we can
see Money's been going into bonds
Money's been going into stocks and
somewhat even into Bitcoin look at this
employment in select Industries changed
from a year earlier
that's right cuz we don't need you
anymore if people are not buying that
stuff at the same time employment and
select Industries you could look at
services to buildings and dwellings and
real estate that is down from that peak
of course there was a huge surge
suddenly okay we went from everybody
staying home lockdown nobody's doing
anything it flips 180 degrees everybody
your brother and your Barber are
suddenly your real estate agent well
that happens right bankruptcies sore as
high rates and the end of
2028 hit businesses hard zombie
companies lose their lifelines as
increased borrowing cost compound
withdrawal of the support that was there
we know this it had to come to an end at
some point the moratoriums you know you
don't need to pay your student loans all
of that stuff came to an end there are
some other programs of course there's
always going to be some sort of social
assistance out there but right now this
is happening it's becoming very
difficult for a lot of people and so
what do we need to watch for well of
course the rate cuts are coming okay but
if there's a recession this is the whole
thing when I keep talking about rate
cuts no no no it's not going to happen
it's not going to happen I was saying
that they were going to increase rates
all of the YouTubers the vast majority
of them were saying no not going to
happen they're not going to do that
because there's too much debt it's going
to collapse everything they know I said
yes they're going to even people like
Peter Schiff were saying no no no it's
not going to happen look I I I've read
you know I think four Peter shift books
anyway the point is I said that was
going to happen we knew it was going to
happen here on this channel now the
opposite yes they will cut rates and
guess what if there's a recession people
say well there going to be a recession
this and that if there's a recession it
only accelerates that and that's a big
concern a very big concern because we
know inflation will go W but guess what
you think they're going to admit it you
really think so you think they're going
to admit this a re session maybe oh but
they'll say it's mild yeah be careful be
careful be careful okay let's be honest
credit card use this this report is
basically talking about what people are
doing and lo and behold they're doing
their whole paycheck to paycheck
lifestyle more than ever before 62% of
the portion of consumers who live
paycheck to paycheck as of November 2023
I've shown you that a thousand different
surveys you know 60 2% 60% 65% 75%
whatever the vast majority of people
live paycheck to paycheck we know that
to be true and so what does that tell us
well of course their lifestyle maybe
they're spending too much I've seen that
before but something really changed in
2020 because I was seeing a lot of
people that were seemingly doing well
throughout all the way leading up to
2020 and then things happened they were
still employed but suddenly they
couldn't afford everything and I'm
noticing that all over the place now I'm
hearing it from so many people oh that's
so expensive that's expensive just going
to the supermarket I hear this all the
time from people going to the
supermarket and I have two bags of
groceries and typically you know that
was let's say $20 that was $50 whatever
the case is and now they're saying oh
it's twice as much as it was
before but they're telling us that the
if infation is 3%
though is that maybe not true so the
statistics that they're providing us
obviously are false there are false
indications of what's happening and so
don't expect that they're you know
they're going to just notify everybody
and you know things are going to change
and we can't do that we have to
understand the fake stats so that we
know what they're up to and we know what
they're looking at and of course the
real stats so that we can for prepare
for ourselves and our families this is
the important stuff that's why you're on
this channel because I show you both
sides both sides are important for their
own reasons look at this only 60% of
student loan borrowers made payments
when bills restarted so that just
happened right and guess what a lot of
them didn't pay same same data looking
at the other way 40% of student loan
borrowers missed their payments in
October well that's an issue right I
think for some of them I would have to
yes this is just my opinion that the
belief is hey they wiped out a whole
bunch of that debt why should I pay this
why should I pay this if you know maybe
they're going to wipe all my debt it's a
waste of money right and so maybe that's
the thought the thinking like if enough
people don't pay maybe they'll go in and
it'll help people out I'm not sure about
that but what I can tell you is that you
sto the payments for so long and now
people have been accustomed to basically
hey I don't have to pay pay I I think
more debt will be wiped out and what I
see is the taxpayer simply footing the
bill for one thing or the other I mean
it's just going to increase taxes will
increase on the middle class there's no
question about that and so we see it
coming up and this is like the very last
thing and that is the buy now pay later
well now a firm expands to self checkout
at Walmart stores 45 w
4500 Walmart stores in the United States
you go up imagine this you go up to the
self checkout all right no humans needed
okay self Cheo you go up to the self
Cheo you're going to buy your you know
bananas oh buy now pay later whoa I can
have my bananas and eat it too I mean I
can have my cake and eat it too uh you
know you don't have to pay I mean it's
it's crazy it's CRA this isn't house
where it's reasonable to go in you put
20% down you make a good nice lump sum
payment and you say hey I'm going to
work real hard we got two sources of
income here we're doing great we're
keeping it way under the budget we're
going good that's a reasonable use of
debt all right this isn't buy out pay
later to go and buy you know who knows
what your new flat screen TV not good
very bad terrible sign and you know that
people have that option there they're
going to say hm yeah I'll add that to my
cart because I know I can just pay later
this is not a good sign and it's
happening each and every day each and
every day this expands so be very
careful Cheerios maker General Mills cut
sales view as price hikes Hammer the
demand you can't even buy Cheerios now
they're getting shrink flated they're
getting more expensive so you lost a lot
of those Cheerios in your bowl and my
goodness have you have we seen the
impact that this is having on the
consumer but look what they're buying
interesting some people anyway we sold
over $100 million of gold during uh the
quarters the quarter so Costco are
selling off the gold bars physical gold
is always seemingly in high demand are
you noticing that are you noticing
something maybe they don't trust C
certain things and they want to buy
something real H what does that tell you
well you know the way that this is going
and each and every week on the Friday
live session I break all this stuff down
on the Sunday session I teach people how
to build a business specifically I focus
on e-commerce online businesses but now
because of myself and what I'm doing
expanding into retail coming up that I'm
going beyond that so it will be there
but certainly that's kind of the focus
of online businesses e-commerce if
you're interested in either one of those
there's a link in the description below
click that read through it and if you're
interested click the apply button that
brings you to me you'll email me and say
Hey I want to join this I want to see
what it's all about no contracts none of
that get in there I hope to see you and
of course before you leave hit that
thumbs up button when you do you're not
only supporting the channel but you're
letting the algorithm know hey hey hey
everybody check this out I do appreciate
that thank you very much and of course
as always I'll see you tomorrow take
care